---
layout: post
title:  "Ultimate Legal and Compliance ICO Checklist for Dummies"
categories: marketing starter
image: robot.jpg
---

The fast pace with which blockchain technology has moved has made it very difficult for governments and
legislators to stay up to date with everything happening in the space.
However, lack of proper legislation doesn’t mean that blockchain startups or their ICOs are exempt from the law.
It is quite the opposite. Teams that decide to run an ICO should be extra careful and determined to be compliant
to avoid inadvertently committing any offenses.

Corporate formation
One of the legal matters that need to be navigated
relates to what kind of structure will be chosen for
the project. If you have not decided on the structure
of your business, you might fall into a default general
partnership, where all founders would be operating
under full personal responsibility for all actions
performed during the business.
One of the most common practices when doing
an ICO is to separate the operating entity from
the token issuer company. This is done for several
reasons including separating legal liability and also
choosing different business entity types according to
the function of each entity. For example, foundations
and trusts are commonly used entities to run ICOs
but are not the best option to operate a business.
One advantage of such a separated structure is
that the two entities may be located in different
jurisdictions. Your operating entity could be located
in almost any jurisdiction without any risk as long
as you abide by the current legislation. On the other
hand, for your token issuer company, you might
want to choose the jurisdiction with more friendly
or flexible legislation. You can find more about these
in the next sections.
NOTE: When running an ICO what typically matters is
where the investors are located and not where the issuing
entity is. You should consider this when you decide what
investors you will whitelist for your sale.

How to choose the right jurisdiction
Even though legislation continues to lag behind the
industry, many national authorities have begun to issue
guidelines for ICO investors. While these guidelines
are not 100% ideal, they should be seen optimistically,
as progress of a kind. It is essential to understand
that they are being developed with investor protection
in mind, and with a desire to make the space more
transparent.
That said, regulations and guidelines vary significantly
between jurisdictions. They depend on several factors
such as how authorities perceive cryptocurrencies,
securities laws, consumer and investor protection laws,
AML regulatory frameworks, and on the jurisdiction’s
willingness to promote blockchain innovation.
Many jurisdictions are trying to attract progressive
entrepreneurs to their territory and are quite open to
helping you succeed. Below you can find some elements
to look for when deciding on a jurisdiction:
Cooperation with industry
Some jurisdiction’s frameworks may seem very flexible
and work well for traditional industries, but this
might not be the case for new and disruptive projects
that involve cryptocurrencies. Look for an emphasis
on stimulating innovation, entrepreneurship, and
small business growth. Having an open policy and
cooperative approach will make a significant difference
when it comes to opening bank accounts and getting 
ancillary business and corporate services.
Access to legal and industry
representatives
Any cooperation to help with setting up an entity
or open an account will be to little or no avail if you
have no access to legal and industry representatives.
Running an ICO will demand a lot of direct
interaction with authorities on a regular basis. The
jurisdiction you select should provide direct access
to an informed representative that you can easily
contact to retrieve a quick response.
Consumer and investor protection
Investors and consumers will feel more secure with
their investment in your project if they see you have
a regulatory stamp of approval from a jurisdiction
that protects their interests. It gives them certainty
that you are operating above board and provides a
place they can go to argue any grievances should
something go wrong.
In general, a regulator’s quality can be primarily
determined by how well it protects consumers and
investors and how easily accessible they are in the
event of a dispute.
Clear definition of cryptocurrency
A clear definition shows that the jurisdiction is
already aware or involved in the industry and
probably moving forward with more structured and
definitive legislation. A definition may also signal 

how welcoming a jurisdiction is of “coins” and/or
“tokens.” Be sure to read and analyze the definition
for these in the jurisdiction you choose.
Industry Advocacy Group(s)
Any jurisdiction which has an active industry
advocacy group working to develop regulations and
an amicable environment for blockchain projects
should earn a lot of points on your list.
A strong and active advocacy group not only shows
that a jurisdiction is robust, but it also provides you
with allies and a group with whom to work with on
the policies of your company.
Kinds of corporate formations
Structuring a distributed and international small
business is not easy. Making sure that the jurisdiction
has the proper legal vehicles for your project is
critical. Like we mentioned above, the trend in the
blockchain and cryptocurrency industry is to have a
foundation as the main vehicle to accept tokens and
govern your ecosystem, but this does not mean it is
the best, nor the only one.
Make sure to design your business structure with
experts in the field to know what your needs will
be. Some of the leading jurisdictions for blockchain
projects and ICOs are:
• Switzerland

Singapore
• Hong Kong
• British Virgin Islands
• Cayman Islands
• Isle of Man
Remember. Even though these jurisdictions are
leading the way in many respects, each one will
have their benefits and drawbacks. When it comes
to choosing a jurisdiction for your ICO, it’s vital to
examine what your specific needs are and what you
are willing to trade off.
Securities & commodities laws
Despite a large number of legal aspects to consider,
the most significant concern for most projects is
whether their token falls under the category of
securities.
This topic gained particular notoriety when the
SEC released an investigative report concluding
DAO Tokens were securities, and because so much
speculation and uncertainty exists right now, anxiety
levels are very high. Nobody wants the SEC calling
on your phone.
Most jurisdictions have yet to take a clear stance
on whether tokens or which tokens, if any, will be
considered securities. In other words, just because
authorities haven’t come out yet and said that some
specific tokens would be regarded as securities
doesn’t mean it will stay this way in the future.
LEGISLATION & LAW
35
BR.
THE BLOCKCHAIN REVIEW
Non-US investors are not subject to US Securities
laws, so some ICOs target only non-US investors.
But this does not mean they are completely covered
as it’s very easy to mask your location on the Internet
and not all identity verifications (especially on
exchanges) are exhaustive.
One of the most common ways of figuring out if
your ICO might be considered a security offering
is to run it through the US Supreme Court Howey
Test. However, be wary of interpreting these results
as definitive. Regulators use several other methods
to define your token.
There are currently several organizations working in
the blockchain space to clarify these uncertainties.
One such organization is Coin Center - a nonprofit
focused on policy issues facing cryptocurrencies. Coin
Center has published a Framework for Securities
Regulation of Cryptocurrencies and a more specific
Securities Law Framework for Blockchain Tokens .
AML and KYC laws
In almost every legal jurisdiction, no matter what
the legal definition of cryptocurrency is, you will
almost always be required to abide the financial
surveillance laws.
These are better known as the Know Your Customer
(KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) rules.
In simplest terms, these are laws that mandate
that “financial institutions” (a broad category of
businesses offering financial services) must collect
and retain information about their customers

and share that information with the appropriate
regulatory entities.
Regulated entities are traditionally required to
collect a government-issued ID + a utility bill for
a person, in this case, your customers. However,
this may vary according to the jurisdiction you are
operating under, and if your entity is considered
non-regulated, these requirements could be less.
Your KYC related activities depend on how your
token is defined. If it falls under the security
category, KYC regulations must be fully adhered
to (not to mention many other considerations like
making sure purchasers are accredited investors).
On the other hand, if your token is considered a
utility, legislation tends to be more flexible.
Crowdfunding laws
Although the concept of ICOs and crowdfunding
through tokens is revolutionary, not every aspect of
it is entirely new. Some of the problems have been
dealt with before.
In mid-2016, the US implemented Title III of the
JOBS Act, which legalized equity crowdfunding for
non-accredited investors. At its core, it is very similar
to what ICOs have come to deliver on: democratize
the funding process and allow the raising of funds
from a crowd or community and not just a small elite
of venture capitalists. Analyzing the crowdfunding
laws in the jurisdiction in which you hope to launch
is an option.
LEGISLATION & LAW
37
BR.
THE BLOCKCHAIN REVIEW
Taxation
Specific taxation frameworks on ICOs are still not
entirely defined. In addition to this lack of regulation,
the fluctuation of cryptocurrencies presents another
challenge as to how to run your business.
It’s wise to choose a jurisdiction which provides a
favorable tax policy to minimize future headaches.
Each jurisdiction, based on their categorization of
a cryptocurrency will require you to report tax on
either; sales tax, VAT, capital gains, or all of them.
Particularly if you are not running a foundation, a
low tax jurisdiction, with a clear categorization of
what a cryptocurrency is and how it is taxed, will
help the management and accounting side of your
project immensely.
Advertising (of token)
The language you use to refer to your token may
have an impact on whether your token is deemed
a security. Every promotional material you use for
your ICO can and will get examined, so it’s crucial
that no language misrepresents your offering.
Jargon and technical language won’t protect you.
Everything you write can be scrutinized. (Including,
social media, Reddit, messaging apps, etc.).
To protect yourself, be sure to set specific guidelines
on how to refer to your token from the beginning and
make sure that your team members follow diligently.
It is always a good idea to seek the counsel of a lawyer
to review all of your promotional documents, your
website, token terms, and any other material.