---
layout: post
title:  10 Sure Ways to Build Trust and Credibility for your ICO
categories: jekyll update
image: pod.jpg
---

## Transparency
An ironic aspect of blockchain is that although
it prides itself on being a trustless technology,
it’s ecosystem is currently strongly reliant on
transparency and trust. This is why it is so important
that your project helps individuals mitigate the
inherent uncertainties by building these qualities
throughout the whole ICO process (before, during,
and after).
Credibility will play a major role in the success
of your project, but it should become even more
critical after the money has been raised. Remember
that after raising the money you have a long list of
promises you need to deliver on.
While there is little supporters who bought your
tokens can do after they have funded your project,
you should never neglect them. Quite the opposite,
if you are looking for long-term success, the smartest
thing to do is to keep them as happy and informed
as possible. Not having to continually deal with
anxious and uncertain token holders breathing on
your neck will allow you to work better and with less
pressure.
## Maintaining credibility
Like in any traditional startup, transparency
management is always about communication. Be as
honest, open, and available as possible, and always
remember that the token holders and members of
your community will determine the real success or 
failure of your project.
To help you understand what and how to
communicate, we’ve put together a list of four areas
you should concentrate on. This list does not cover
all the aspects of a good communication strategy,
but it’s a solid starting point.
1. How are the funds being used?
This might be the most critical aspect of being
transparent with your community. You need to state
clearly what the allocation of the sale proceeds will
be used for in as much detail as possible. Although
companies that conduct an ICO are not obliged to do
so (unlike public companies), it is one of the best ways
to demonstrate responsibility and seriousness. Also, by
providing the community a tool to hold you responsible,
it shows your trust in the team and management.
How you choose to present this information and at
what level of detail is ultimately up to you. Some
projects may show their financial information as
part of a general report, while others might present
regular details of company expenditures and
transactions.
2. What is the state of the product?
Some projects have raised money with a running
product, others with a basic MVP (Minimum Viable
Product), and others without any written code at all.
Eventually, the time to sell your vision comes to an
end, and it is time to begin presenting real products.
The roadmap that you presented to your community
should have a set of milestones, and relevant product
releases to guide you through. Keeping yourself
accountable for these milestones and meeting due
dates will keep the community’s trust and team
morale high.
The best way to communicate the status of your
product is to have some of your community
members become beta testers. Alternatively, if you
are not at that stage yet, you could also share posts,
screenshots, videos and public code repositories.
3. How to keep the community engaged?
Networks and communities are everything so
making them feel enthusiastic and part of the
journey will keep them engaged, drive them to
contribute actively and even bring more users.
When sharing prototypes, screenshots or ideas, for
example, try to foster debates and ask for feedback.
This will show that you are taking the real needs
of the users into consideration and that once the
product is ready, it will fulfill their expectations.
Instant messaging apps such as Slack, Discourse,
Telegram, etc. are the best ways to foster this but
any of your tools can provide valuable feedback.
4. Token value speculative questions
No matter what you do to prevent your token sale from
becoming a get-rich-quick scheme, you will find that
there will be speculators and immediate profit seekers
amongst your community of token holders.
You will receive a lot of questions about the valuation
of your token, the exchanges you will get listed on, and
other speculative inquiries. Our recommendation is
to answer these in the best possible way but without
adding fuel to the speculation. State that this is a
long-term project, refer to your roadmap, highlight
your accomplishments, and emphasize how you have
been consistent with everything you have promised
before the ICO.
Be polite but at the same time don’t let them push
you around or set the value of your project based on
a token valuation. You can always invite participants
to sell their tokens.
Unfortunately, a lot of projects aren’t doing this.
While this doesn’t mean they are illegitimate, they
are undermining their credibility. They don’t realize
that greater accountability leads to more confidence
and security from all parties involved, which benefits
not only their project but the entire ICO space as
well.
A more secure, transparent, and trustworthy
industry will instill more confidence and bring new
players making the whole space evolve, and focus
on the long-term. At the same time, it will ensure
that transparent, legitimate projects attract more
attention than non-legitimate ones.